### du command 
You can use _du_ command in linux system to check the size of a file, or files 
size in a directory.    

    billie@billie-ThinkPad:/boot$ du -h
    16K ./grub/locale
    1.6M    ./grub
    121M    .

The option `-h` means printing sizes in human readable format. The above
command listed the total size of the current directory with its subdirectories 
size respectively. 

You can read man pages to get more usage of _du_. A website about the examples
of [du command][1].

[1]: http://www.labtestproject.com/linuxcmd/du_command.html

### check file type

Use _file_ command to get a file type. 

    billie@billie-ThinkPad:/$ file initrd.img
    initrd.img: symbolic link to `boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-28-generic'

### find command

I want to read the source code of the _mutt_ mail client, so I need _ctags_ to
ease the viewing process. First I should get all the `.h` and `.c` files in
the directory of mutt source code, then use the files as _ctags_ arguments, so 
I run the following command in terminal.

    find -name "*.[ch]" -exec ctags '{}' \;

But when I check the file named `tags` which was generated by _ctags_, it only
includes few symbols about the file named `attach.h`. I feel so surprised. Why
ctags only build `tags` file according to a file? The I try to execute the
below command, which uses `{} +` instead of `'{} \;`.

    find -name "*.[ch]" -exec ctags {} +

Good, I get the exact result, the _ctags_ dealt with all the files. What's the
difference between the two commands. It's easy to know from the command
format. What are the real meaning of the two commands? The first one means
" run `ctags` on every file in the output of `find` command ". The times of
invoking `ctags` is as many as the number of files. So every time _ctags_ 
processes a file, the result will overwrite `tags` file. The second command 
runs `ctags` only once with all files as its arguments.

    find -name "*.[ch]" | xargs ctags

The above command, we call it the third one. It has the same effect as the
second one. If you think the second is not easy to understand, you can use the
third to replace it. 

In additional, if you want to omit some files in a subdirectory, you can use
the command below. I use _mutt_ repository as an example. 

    dir=~/mutt-1.5.21
    find $dir -path "$dir/m4" -prune -o -path "$dir/doc" -prune -o -name \
    "*.[ch]" | xargs ctags 

In the above command, it omit the files in two directories, `m4` and `doc`.

### tar command 

I will use a simple example to explain how to create or extract files from a tarball.
    
    billie@billie-ThinkPad:~/mutt$ ls
    mutt-1.5.21
    billie@billie-ThinkPad:~/mutt$ tar -jc -f mutt-1.5.21.tar.bz2 mutt-1.5.21/
    billie@billie-ThinkPad:~/mutt$ tar -zc -f mutt-1.5.21.tar.gz mutt-1.5.21/
    billie@billie-ThinkPad:~/mutt$ ls
    mutt-1.5.21  mutt-1.5.21.tar.bz2 mutt-1.5.21.tar.gz
    billie@billie-ThinkPad:~/mutt$ du -m mutt-1.5.21.tar*
    4   mutt-1.5.21.tar.bz2
    5   mutt-1.5.21.tar.gz
    billie@billie-ThinkPad:~/mutt$ file mutt-1.5.21.tar.bz2 mutt-1.5.21.tar.gz 
    mutt-1.5.21.tar.bz2: bzip2 compressed data, block size = 900k
    mutt-1.5.21.tar.gz:  gzip compressed data, from Unix, last modified: Wed ~
    billie@billie-ThinkPad:~/mutt$ 

The option `-jc` means creating a tarball compressed by `bzip2` utility. The
option `-f` specifies the tarball's name. The option `-z` will invoke `gzip`
tool to compress an archive. Obviously, `bzip2` is better than `gzip`. We can
draw a conclusion by comparing the size of the two tarballs. 

    tar -jx -f mutt-1.5.21.tar.bz2
    tar -zx -f mutt-1.5.21.tar.gz

When you get a tarball, you can use the above commands to uncompress it 
according to the name of tarball. More information could be found in man pages. 

Also, you can use `tar` command to backup your files to devices ( a tape):
    
    tar -cv -f /dev/st0 /etc

### crontab command

If you want to execute some periodic tasks, you need to write these tasks to
your crontab file, which is under the `/var/spool/cron/crontab/` directory,
then _cron_ daemon will do these jobs. So how to write a task to the file, you
should use _crontab_ command which maintain _crontab_ files for individual
users, because user's _crontab_ files are not allowed to be edited under that
directory directly.
    
    billie@billie-ThinkPad:/$ crontab -e

After running the command in the first time, display a menu which lists all the 
editors used to edit your crontab file. Select your preferred editor, open the
file. Then add all the tasks to it in terms of syntax, a task per line.

    */5 * * * * touch ~/test

This means to create a file named `test` under your home directory every five
minutes. 
    
    billie@billie-ThinkPad:/$ crontab -l  

The `-l` means to list user's crontab. 

    billie@billie-ThinkPad:/$ crontab -r

The `-r` means to delete user's crontab. 

man 5 crontab; man 8 cron; crontab --help

### how to setup bash prompt
